README.md, before:

# Tokei ([時計](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/%E6%99%82%E8%A8%88))
[![Linux build status](https://img.shields.io/travis/Aaronepower/tokei.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Aaronepower/tokei)
[![Windows build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/Aaronepower/tokei?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/Aaronepower/tokei)
[![](https://img.shields.io/crates/d/tokei.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/tokei)
[![](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/Aaronepower/tokei.svg)](https://github.com/Aaronepower/tokei/issues)
[![](https://tokei.rs/b1/github/Aaronepower/tokei?category=code)](https://github.com/Aaronepower/tokei)
[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/tokei/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/tokei/)
[![Donate using Liberapay](https://liberapay.com/assets/widgets/donate.svg)](https://liberapay.com/Aaronepower/donate)

Tokei is a program that displays statistics about your code. Tokei will show number of files, total lines within those files and code, comments, and blanks grouped by language.

### Translations
- [中文](https://github.com/chinanf-boy/tokei-zh#支持的语言)

## Example Output
This is tokei running on its own directory

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/d14m9g1d2cyo7wvrxh0z4ck6o.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/d14m9g1d2cyo7wvrxh0z4ck6o?autoplay=1)

## [Documentation](https://docs.rs/tokei)

## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
    - [Automatic](#automatic)
        - [Arch Linux](#arch-linux)
        - [Cargo](#cargo)
        - [Conda](#conda)
        - [Fedora](#fedora)
        - [FreeBSD](#freebsd)
        - [Homebrew](#homebrew)
        - [Nix/NixOS](#nix/nixos)
    - [Manual](#manual)
- [How to use Tokei](#how-to-use-tokei)
- [Options](#options)
- [Badges](#badges)
- [Plugins](#plugins)
- [Supported Languages](#supported-languages)
- [Changelog](CHANGELOG.md)
- [Common Issues](#common-issues)
- [Canonical Source](#canonical-source)
- [Copyright and License](#copyright-and-license)

## Features

- Tokei is **very fast**, check out our [comparison](./COMPARISON.md) document
  to see how Tokei's speed compares to others.

- Tokei is **accurate**, Tokei correctly handles multi line comments,
  nested comments, and not counting comments that are in strings. Providing an
  accurate code statistics.

- Tokei has huge range of languages, supporting over **150** languages, and
  their various extensions.

- Tokei can output in multiple formats(**CBOR**, **JSON**, **TOML**, **YAML**)
  allowing Tokei's output to be easily stored, and reused. These can also be
  reused in tokei combining a previous run's statistics with another set.

- Tokei is available on **Mac**, **Linux**, and **Windows**. See [installation
  instructions](#installation) for how to get Tokei on your platform.

- Tokei is also a **library** allowing you to easily integrate it with other
  projects.

## Installation

### Automatic

#### Arch Linux
```shell
$ pacman -S tokei
```

#### Cargo
```shell
$ cargo install tokei
```

#### Conda
```shell
$ conda install -c conda-forge tokei
```

#### Fedora
```shell
$ sudo dnf install tokei
```

#### FreeBSD
```shell
$ pkg install tokei
```

#### Homebrew
```shell
$ brew install tokei
```

#### Nix/NixOS
```shell
$ nix-env -i tokei
```

### Manual
You can download prebuilt binaries in the
[releases section](https://github.com/Aaronepower/tokei/releases), or create
from source.
```shell
$ git clone https://github.com/Aaronepower/tokei.git
$ cd tokei
$ cargo build --release
```
##### Linux
```
# sudo mv target/release/tokei /usr/local/bin
```
##### OSX
```
# sudo mv target/release/tokei /usr/local/bin/tokei
```
##### Windows
- Create a folder for tokei
- search for `env`
- open "edit your enviroment variables"
- edit `PATH`
- append folder path to the end of the string ie: `<path_stuff_here>;C:/tokei/;`

## How to use Tokei

#### Basic usage

This is the basic way to use tokei. Which will report on the code in `./foo`
and all subfolders.

```shell
$ tokei ./foo
```

#### Multiple folders
To have tokei report on multiple folders in the same call simply add a comma,
or a space followed by another path.

```shell
$ tokei ./foo ./bar ./baz
```
```shell
$ tokei ./foo, ./bar, ./baz
```

#### Excluding folders
Tokei will respect all `.gitignore` and `.ignore` files, and you can use
the `--exclude` option to exclude any additional files. The `--exclude` flag has
the same semantics as `.gitignore`.

```shell
$ tokei ./foo --exclude *.rs
```

#### Sorting output
By default tokei sorts alphabetically by language name, however using `--sort`
tokei can also sort by any of the columns.

`blanks, code, comments, lines`

```shell
$ tokei ./foo --sort code
```

#### Outputting file statistics
By default tokei only outputs the total of the languages, and using `--files`
flag tokei can also output individual file statistics.

```shell
$ tokei ./foo --files
```

#### Outputting into different formats
Tokei normally outputs into a nice human readable format designed for terminals.
There is also using the `--output` option various other formats that are more
useful for bringing the data into another program.

**Note:** This version of tokei was compiled without any serialization formats, to enable serialization, reinstall
tokei with the features flag.

```shell
  ALL:
  cargo install tokei --features all

  JSON:
  cargo install tokei --features json

  CBOR:
  cargo install tokei --features cbor

  YAML:
  cargo install tokei --features yaml

  CBOR:
  cargo install tokei --features cbor
```

**Currently supported formats**
- JSON `--output json`
- YAML `--output yaml`
- TOML `--output toml`
- CBOR `--output cbor`

```shell
$ tokei ./foo --output json
```

#### Reading in stored formats
Tokei can also take in the outputted formats added in the previous results to it's
current run. Tokei can take either a path to a file, the format passed in as a
value to the option, or from stdin.

```shell
$ tokei ./foo --input ./stats.json
```

## Options

```
tokei 7.0.1
Aaron P. <theaaronepower@gmail.com> + Contributors
A utility that allows you to count code, quickly.

USAGE:
    tokei [FLAGS] [OPTIONS] [--] [input]...

FLAGS:
    -f, --files        Will print out statistics on individual files.
    -h, --help         Prints help information
    -l, --languages    Prints out supported languages and their extensions.
    -V, --version      Prints version information
    -v, --verbose      Set log output level:
                                1: to show unknown file extensions,
                                2: reserved for future debugging,
                                3: enable file level trace. Not recommended on multiple files

OPTIONS:
    -e, --exclude <exclude>...    Ignore all files & directories containing the word.
    -i, --input <file_input>      Gives statistics from a previous tokei run. Can be given a file path, or "stdin" to
                                  read from stdin.
    -o, --output <output>         Outputs Tokei in a specific format. [values: cbor, json, toml, yaml]
    -s, --sort <sort>             Sort languages based on column [values: files, lines, blanks, code, comments]

ARGS:
    <input>...    The input file(s)/directory(ies) to be counted.
```

## Badges
Tokei has support for badges. For example
[![](https://tokei.rs/b1/github/Aaronepower/tokei)](https://github.com/Aaronepower/tokei).

```
[![](https://tokei.rs/b1/github/Aaronepower/tokei)](https://github.com/Aaronepower/tokei).
```

Tokei's URL scheme is as follows.

```
https://tokei.rs/b1/{host: values: github|gitlab}/{Repo Owner eg: Aaronepower}/{Repo name eg: tokei}
```

By default the badge will show the repo's LoC(_Lines of Code_), you can also
specify for it to show a different category, by using the `?category=` query
string. It can be either `code`, `blanks`, `files`, `lines`, `comments`,
Example show total lines:

```
[![](https://tokei.rs/b1/github/Aaronepower/tokei?category=lines)](https://github.com/Aaronepower/tokei).
```

## Plugins
Thanks to contributors tokei is now available as a plugin for some text editors.

- [Vim](https://github.com/vmchale/tokei-vim) by [vmchale](https://github.com/vmchale/)

## Supported Languages

If there is a language that you want added, feel free to submit a pull request
with the following information. If you're unsure have a look at
[`languages.json`](./languages.json) to see how other languages are defined.

- Name of language
- File Extension(s)
- The comment syntax (_Does it have block comments? is it the same as C?_)
- The string literal syntax

```
ABAP
ActionScript
Ada
Agda
Alex
ASP
ASP.NET
Assembly
AutoHotKey
Autoconf
Automake
BASH
Batch
BrightScript
C
C Header
CMake
C#
C Shell
Cabal
Cassius
Ceylon
Clojure
ClojureC
ClojureScript
COBOL
CoffeeScript
Cogent
ColdFusion
ColdFusion CFScript
Coq
C++
C++ Header
Crystal
CSS
D
Dart
Device Tree
Dockerfile
.NET Resource
Dream Maker
Edn
Emacs Lisp
Elixir
Elm
Elvish
Emacs Dev Env
Erlang
FEN
F#
Fish
Forth
FORTRAN Legacy
FORTRAN Modern
F*
GDScript
GLSL
Go
Groovy
Hamlet
Handlebars
Happy
Haskell
Haxe
HCL
HEX
HLSL
HTML
Idris
INI
Intel HEX
Isabelle
JAI
Java
JavaScript
JSON
JSX
Julia
Julius
Kakoune script
Kotlin
Lean
LESS
LD Script
Liquid
Lisp
Logtalk
Lua
Lucius
Madlang
Makefile
Markdown
Meson
Mint
Module-Definition
MSBuild
Mustache
Nim
Nix
Not Quite Perl
OCaml
Objective C
Objective C++
Org
Oz
PSL Assertion
Pascal
Perl
Perl6
PHP
Polly
Processing
Prolog
Protocol Buffers
PureScript
Python
QCL
QML
R
Racket
Rakefile
Razor
ReStructuredText
Ruby
Ruby HTML
Rust
SRecode Template
Sass
Scala
Scheme
Scons
Shell
Standard ML (SML)
Solidity
Specman e
Spice Netlist
SQL
SVG
Swift
SWIG
SystemVerilog
TCL
TeX
Plain Text
TOML
Twig
TypeScript
Unreal Markdown
Unreal Plugin
Unreal Project
Unreal Script
Unreal Shader
Unreal Shader Header
Ur/Web
Ur/Web Project
VB6
VBScript
Vala
Verilog
Verilog Args File
VHDL
Vim Script
Visual Basic
Visual Studio Project
Visual Studio Solution
Vue
Wolfram
XSL
XAML
XCode Config
XML
Xtend
YAML
Zig
Zsh
```

## Common issues

### Tokei says I have a lot of D code, but I know there is no D code!
This is likely due to `gcc` generating `.d` files. Until the D people decide on
a different file extension, you can always exclude `.d` files using the
`-e --exclude` flag like so

```
$ tokei . -e *.d
```

## Canonical Source
The canonical source of this repo is hosted on
[GitHub](https://github.com/Aaronepower/tokei). If you have a GitHub account,
please make your issues, and pull requests there.

## Copyright and License
(C) Copyright 2015 by Aaron Power and contributors

See CONTRIBUTORS.md for a full list of contributors.

Tokei is distributed under the terms of both the MIT license and the Apache License (Version 2.0).

See [LICENCE-APACHE](./LICENCE-APACHE), [LICENCE-MIT](./LICENCE-MIT) for more information.

Commit message:

add tokei_rs repository link (#310) (#312)

README.md, after:

# Tokei ([時計](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/%E6%99%82%E8%A8%88))
[![Linux build status](https://img.shields.io/travis/Aaronepower/tokei.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Aaronepower/tokei)
[![Windows build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/Aaronepower/tokei?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/Aaronepower/tokei)
[![](https://img.shields.io/crates/d/tokei.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/tokei)
[![](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/Aaronepower/tokei.svg)](https://github.com/Aaronepower/tokei/issues)
[![](https://tokei.rs/b1/github/Aaronepower/tokei?category=code)](https://github.com/Aaronepower/tokei)
[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/tokei/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/tokei/)
[![Donate using Liberapay](https://liberapay.com/assets/widgets/donate.svg)](https://liberapay.com/Aaronepower/donate)

Tokei is a program that displays statistics about your code. Tokei will show number of files, total lines within those files and code, comments, and blanks grouped by language.

### Translations
- [中文](https://github.com/chinanf-boy/tokei-zh#支持的语言)

## Example Output
This is tokei running on its own directory

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/d14m9g1d2cyo7wvrxh0z4ck6o.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/d14m9g1d2cyo7wvrxh0z4ck6o?autoplay=1)

## [Documentation](https://docs.rs/tokei)

## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
    - [Automatic](#automatic)
        - [Arch Linux](#arch-linux)
        - [Cargo](#cargo)
        - [Conda](#conda)
        - [Fedora](#fedora)
        - [FreeBSD](#freebsd)
        - [Homebrew](#homebrew)
        - [Nix/NixOS](#nix/nixos)
    - [Manual](#manual)
- [How to use Tokei](#how-to-use-tokei)
- [Options](#options)
- [Badges](#badges)
- [Plugins](#plugins)
- [Supported Languages](#supported-languages)
- [Changelog](CHANGELOG.md)
- [Common Issues](#common-issues)
- [Canonical Source](#canonical-source)
- [Copyright and License](#copyright-and-license)

## Features

- Tokei is **very fast**, check out our [comparison](./COMPARISON.md) document
  to see how Tokei's speed compares to others.

- Tokei is **accurate**, Tokei correctly handles multi line comments,
  nested comments, and not counting comments that are in strings. Providing an
  accurate code statistics.

- Tokei has huge range of languages, supporting over **150** languages, and
  their various extensions.

- Tokei can output in multiple formats(**CBOR**, **JSON**, **TOML**, **YAML**)
  allowing Tokei's output to be easily stored, and reused. These can also be
  reused in tokei combining a previous run's statistics with another set.

- Tokei is available on **Mac**, **Linux**, and **Windows**. See [installation
  instructions](#installation) for how to get Tokei on your platform.

- Tokei is also a **library** allowing you to easily integrate it with other
  projects.

## Installation

### Automatic

#### Arch Linux
```shell
$ pacman -S tokei
```

#### Cargo
```shell
$ cargo install tokei
```

#### Conda
```shell
$ conda install -c conda-forge tokei
```

#### Fedora
```shell
$ sudo dnf install tokei
```

#### FreeBSD
```shell
$ pkg install tokei
```

#### Homebrew
```shell
$ brew install tokei
```

#### Nix/NixOS
```shell
$ nix-env -i tokei
```

### Manual
You can download prebuilt binaries in the
[releases section](https://github.com/Aaronepower/tokei/releases), or create
from source.
```shell
$ git clone https://github.com/Aaronepower/tokei.git
$ cd tokei
$ cargo build --release
```
##### Linux
```
# sudo mv target/release/tokei /usr/local/bin
```
##### OSX
```
# sudo mv target/release/tokei /usr/local/bin/tokei
```
##### Windows
- Create a folder for tokei
- search for `env`
- open "edit your enviroment variables"
- edit `PATH`
- append folder path to the end of the string ie: `<path_stuff_here>;C:/tokei/;`

## How to use Tokei

#### Basic usage

This is the basic way to use tokei. Which will report on the code in `./foo`
and all subfolders.

```shell
$ tokei ./foo
```

#### Multiple folders
To have tokei report on multiple folders in the same call simply add a comma,
or a space followed by another path.

```shell
$ tokei ./foo ./bar ./baz
```
```shell
$ tokei ./foo, ./bar, ./baz
```

#### Excluding folders
Tokei will respect all `.gitignore` and `.ignore` files, and you can use
the `--exclude` option to exclude any additional files. The `--exclude` flag has
the same semantics as `.gitignore`.

```shell
$ tokei ./foo --exclude *.rs
```

#### Sorting output
By default tokei sorts alphabetically by language name, however using `--sort`
tokei can also sort by any of the columns.

`blanks, code, comments, lines`

```shell
$ tokei ./foo --sort code
```

#### Outputting file statistics
By default tokei only outputs the total of the languages, and using `--files`
flag tokei can also output individual file statistics.

```shell
$ tokei ./foo --files
```

#### Outputting into different formats
Tokei normally outputs into a nice human readable format designed for terminals.
There is also using the `--output` option various other formats that are more
useful for bringing the data into another program.

**Note:** This version of tokei was compiled without any serialization formats, to enable serialization, reinstall
tokei with the features flag.

```shell
  ALL:
  cargo install tokei --features all

  JSON:
  cargo install tokei --features json

  CBOR:
  cargo install tokei --features cbor

  YAML:
  cargo install tokei --features yaml

  CBOR:
  cargo install tokei --features cbor
```

**Currently supported formats**
- JSON `--output json`
- YAML `--output yaml`
- TOML `--output toml`
- CBOR `--output cbor`

```shell
$ tokei ./foo --output json
```

#### Reading in stored formats
Tokei can also take in the outputted formats added in the previous results to it's
current run. Tokei can take either a path to a file, the format passed in as a
value to the option, or from stdin.

```shell
$ tokei ./foo --input ./stats.json
```

## Options

```
tokei 7.0.1
Aaron P. <theaaronepower@gmail.com> + Contributors
A utility that allows you to count code, quickly.

USAGE:
    tokei [FLAGS] [OPTIONS] [--] [input]...

FLAGS:
    -f, --files        Will print out statistics on individual files.
    -h, --help         Prints help information
    -l, --languages    Prints out supported languages and their extensions.
    -V, --version      Prints version information
    -v, --verbose      Set log output level:
                                1: to show unknown file extensions,
                                2: reserved for future debugging,
                                3: enable file level trace. Not recommended on multiple files

OPTIONS:
    -e, --exclude <exclude>...    Ignore all files & directories containing the word.
    -i, --input <file_input>      Gives statistics from a previous tokei run. Can be given a file path, or "stdin" to
                                  read from stdin.
    -o, --output <output>         Outputs Tokei in a specific format. [values: cbor, json, toml, yaml]
    -s, --sort <sort>             Sort languages based on column [values: files, lines, blanks, code, comments]

ARGS:
    <input>...    The input file(s)/directory(ies) to be counted.
```

## Badges
Tokei has support for badges. For example
[![](https://tokei.rs/b1/github/Aaronepower/tokei)](https://github.com/Aaronepower/tokei).

```
[![](https://tokei.rs/b1/github/Aaronepower/tokei)](https://github.com/Aaronepower/tokei).
```

Tokei's URL scheme is as follows.

```
https://tokei.rs/b1/{host: values: github|gitlab}/{Repo Owner eg: Aaronepower}/{Repo name eg: tokei}
```

By default the badge will show the repo's LoC(_Lines of Code_), you can also
specify for it to show a different category, by using the `?category=` query
string. It can be either `code`, `blanks`, `files`, `lines`, `comments`,
Example show total lines:

```
[![](https://tokei.rs/b1/github/Aaronepower/tokei?category=lines)](https://github.com/Aaronepower/tokei).
```

The server code hosted on tokei.rs is in [Aaronepower/tokei_rs](https://github.com/Aaronepower/tokei_rs)

## Plugins
Thanks to contributors tokei is now available as a plugin for some text editors.

- [Vim](https://github.com/vmchale/tokei-vim) by [vmchale](https://github.com/vmchale/)

## Supported Languages

If there is a language that you want added, feel free to submit a pull request
with the following information. If you're unsure have a look at
[`languages.json`](./languages.json) to see how other languages are defined.

- Name of language
- File Extension(s)
- The comment syntax (_Does it have block comments? is it the same as C?_)
- The string literal syntax

```
ABAP
ActionScript
Ada
Agda
Alex
ASP
ASP.NET
Assembly
AutoHotKey
Autoconf
Automake
BASH
Batch
BrightScript
C
C Header
CMake
C#
C Shell
Cabal
Cassius
Ceylon
Clojure
ClojureC
ClojureScript
COBOL
CoffeeScript
Cogent
ColdFusion
ColdFusion CFScript
Coq
C++
C++ Header
Crystal
CSS
D
Dart
Device Tree
Dockerfile
.NET Resource
Dream Maker
Edn
Emacs Lisp
Elixir
Elm
Elvish
Emacs Dev Env
Erlang
FEN
F#
Fish
Forth
FORTRAN Legacy
FORTRAN Modern
F*
GDScript
GLSL
Go
Groovy
Hamlet
Handlebars
Happy
Haskell
Haxe
HCL
HEX
HLSL
HTML
Idris
INI
Intel HEX
Isabelle
JAI
Java
JavaScript
JSON
JSX
Julia
Julius
Kakoune script
Kotlin
Lean
LESS
LD Script
Liquid
Lisp
Logtalk
Lua
Lucius
Madlang
Makefile
Markdown
Meson
Mint
Module-Definition
MSBuild
Mustache
Nim
Nix
Not Quite Perl
OCaml
Objective C
Objective C++
Org
Oz
PSL Assertion
Pascal
Perl
Perl6
PHP
Polly
Processing
Prolog
Protocol Buffers
PureScript
Python
QCL
QML
R
Racket
Rakefile
Razor
ReStructuredText
Ruby
Ruby HTML
Rust
SRecode Template
Sass
Scala
Scheme
Scons
Shell
Standard ML (SML)
Solidity
Specman e
Spice Netlist
SQL
SVG
Swift
SWIG
SystemVerilog
TCL
TeX
Plain Text
TOML
Twig
TypeScript
Unreal Markdown
Unreal Plugin
Unreal Project
Unreal Script
Unreal Shader
Unreal Shader Header
Ur/Web
Ur/Web Project
VB6
VBScript
Vala
Verilog
Verilog Args File
VHDL
Vim Script
Visual Basic
Visual Studio Project
Visual Studio Solution
Vue
Wolfram
XSL
XAML
XCode Config
XML
Xtend
YAML
Zig
Zsh
```

## Common issues

### Tokei says I have a lot of D code, but I know there is no D code!
This is likely due to `gcc` generating `.d` files. Until the D people decide on
a different file extension, you can always exclude `.d` files using the
`-e --exclude` flag like so

```
$ tokei . -e *.d
```

## Canonical Source
The canonical source of this repo is hosted on
[GitHub](https://github.com/Aaronepower/tokei). If you have a GitHub account,
please make your issues, and pull requests there.

## Copyright and License
(C) Copyright 2015 by Aaron Power and contributors

See CONTRIBUTORS.md for a full list of contributors.

Tokei is distributed under the terms of both the MIT license and the Apache License (Version 2.0).

See [LICENCE-APACHE](./LICENCE-APACHE), [LICENCE-MIT](./LICENCE-MIT) for more information.
